In the next part of this lecture, i will introduce
you to a system that will allow you to create
3D objects through code. That are constructed
in a way so that you can use them in fabrication
processes like 3D printing. But you
can also create 3D objects in p5.js.
But they are only meant for the visual output
of 3D objects, like you can see here in this
animation. And they're not meant to be used
as an export for 3D printing for example.
I will now quickly guide you through an example,
for how to build 3D objects using p5.js.
But we'll not go into depth as this
is not the focus of this lecture.
We already know the p5.js standard renderer, which
generates pixel data and the SVG vector renderer.
If we want to generate 3D objects, we need to
use the WEBGL renderer. We need to add WEBGL to
our createCanvas command. This will allow us
to use the WEBGL capabilities of our browser
and thereby the performance of the rendering is
increased, as the browser is using your graphics
card to render these 3D objects more quickly. As
soon as we add WEBGL to the create canvasCommand,
we can now make use of all the fancy 3D commands
that are built into p5.js. If you're interested
in creating more visually interesting objects,
that are for example, have reflections like this
example up here, then you need to think about the
lighting of your 3D scene. And there are different
commands that allow you to set up different kinds
of lights from ambient lights that come from every
direction to point lights that allow you to create
different spots and thereby also nice reflections.
As we are now in the 3d space all our
transformations also work in 3D. Translate,
rotate now have an additional dimension,
how we can translate and transform things.
From rotate we now have rotateX, rotateY and
rotateZ, to also rotate in different directions.
If we want really nice 3d materials and you will
probably know this from other 3d applications,
where you need materials/textures to create
good renderings for 3D objects, we cannot use
only the fill color, because if you use only fill,
it will just be plain red, without any
kind of reflections or shadows or anything.
There are different kinds of materials already
provided by p5.js, like this specularMaterial,
that i've used here. And also our vertex commands
that we can use to create more complex shapes, we
can now also use in the third dimension. And this
is just a simple square, that i've added here, but
obviously you could use all three dimensions and
create really complex 3D shapes and structures.
So this is just a really really small
example, trying to give you a first
introduction to building 3D objects in p5.js. I
will put a few more links to special functions
below this video so you can explore the reference
regarding 3D objects in p5.js a little bit more.